# Rock-Paper-Scissor

# Project Description
Built rock, paper, scissor using javascript. I created the game using a variable called options and passed the array values of rock for index of 0, paper for index of 1, and scissors for index of 2. Further more, i created a variable called playerOne that would capeture user input with the prompt"Choose your option" as the value to the playerOne variable. Next i created a bot or cpu that i would play against. In order for me to make a bot i had to creat the variable cpu and assign it the value of options[] first without any value inside the array brackets. the reason is because i had to find a way to do this at random. Since javascript has a math object i decided to use the Math.floor((Math.random) * 3) to create index position numbers for each of the values in the array so that everytime the cpu ran on its own it would return the values 0,1,2 giving you options[0] to access rock options[1] to access paper and options[2] to access paper. I used a while statement to send the game into an infinite loop that allows you to play the game, select an option, determine a winner, and then restart from the beginning the of the game. What follow after is a list of if and else if statments that uses conditions to determine a winer for instance i used if(playerOne === "rock) && (cpu === "scissors) meaning if i type the word rock as user input. playerOne stays with the value i assigned as user input which was "rock" and then checks with the && and operator to see what cpu has selected which is scissor in this example. Because we know rock beats scissors all that is left to do is select the winner so in js we use the console.log() and say console.log("playerOne is the winner"). As a small note i wrote my game winner decisions with an if else if statement becuase that was the first way i apporached the problem and i have clear understanding of how if and else if statements work and how to create the conditions that will lead to exexute your block of code. while my block of code only has a console.log indicating a winner it still tests against my condition which is ((playerOne === 'rock') && (cpu === 'scissors')) . and all that says is hey if you playerOne type the word as user input 'rock' &&(and) cpu selects scissors who wins. i found this solution extremely easy and know that while i could have gone with switch case i still preferred all the cool things you could do with if and else not to mention the block of code where more things can take place in. either way check it out, try it out and let me know what you think. Let me know how my data structure looks when building it. Happy Coding! 
